Guardians (#629)
multiversx/mx-docs: docs/developers/guard-accounts.md

---
id: guard-accounts
title: Guard accounts
---

[comment]: # (mx-abstract)

On this page, you will find comprehensive information on all aspects of guarded (co-signed) transactions.

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

# Introduction

> Phishing attacks that scam people have become a constant problem on blockchains in general, especially when newbies to the crypto world are granted easy access to this new economy. In light of these new challenges, it is important to continue educating people on specific ways to protect themselves while also considering new methods to add protection against such attacks. That's how we came to a method that we called Guardians, with the scope of having a guardian for each account.

Reviewer: `with the scope of having a guardian for each account.`
=>
`. This is an optional security feature that any user can enable.`

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

> # For consumers

Reviewer: `# For users`

## Web-Wallet

## xPortal

There is no solution released for the **xPortal Wallet**. As soon as there is one, it will be documented and referenced here.

## Ledger

There is no solution released for the **Ledger**. As soon as there is one, it will be documented and referenced here.

# For developers

> If you are a developer and you understand what a transaction is, what fields it contains and how a signing of a transaction happens you may be interested by the technical aspects of the implementation.  can be achieved by adding another field in the transaction structure for a second signature, and defining the option to flag the transactions that are supposed to be executed/verified as multisig transactions. The option field in the transaction is currently used to differentiate between transactions where the signature should be verified over the marshaled transaction and transactions where the signature should be verified over the hash of the transaction, but additional options could be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a developer and you understand what a transaction is, what fields it contains and how a signing of a transaction happens you may be interested in the technical aspects of the implementation. 

On top of a regular transaction, 2 fields must be filled in:
- `guardian` - representing the address of the Guadian that has to co-sign the transaction
- `guardianSignature` - representing the the signature computed by the guardian
Also, some other fields have to be altered:
- `version` needs to be at least `2`
- `options` needs to have the second least significant bit set to `1`. For example: `0011` _bin_ = `3` _dec_
```

The full activation of the extra protection requires two actions:

**1. Register a Guardian**

**2. Guard the account**

After guarding the account, _almost_ every action the user takes should be co-signed by the guardian.

:::note
**Why not mandate that every transaction is co-signed by a guardian when an account is guarded?**

This is done in order to not have the user locked out of his account (e.g user guards his account but the guardian also loses access to his account). For this reason, the user should not only be able to **_set up a new guardian_**, but also **_change the guardian_** if he wishes so (e.g when the guardian is compromised).
:::

## Registering & Changing the guardian

> ### Register a Guardian

Reviewer: Set a Guardian?
registers makes me think of creating an account that will act as a guardian

In order to register a guardian a user has to set a **guardian** address by sending a ```SetGuardian``` transaction (described in built-in functions [here](/developers/built-in-functions#setguardian)). The guardian address becomes active after **20 epochs**, a period longer than the unbond time (**10 epochs**). The guardian address should be set into the account’s key-value store.

### Change the Active Guardian

> Accounts will continue to be compromised. For unknown reasons, you may be confronted with the necessity to change the active guardian. The scope of account guarding is to protect users in case of a compromised account, but there are edge cases where it is uncertain whether a user or a scammer is changing the guardian, potentially leading to a scammer taking control of a user's funds. To address this issue, additional measures are necessary to allow users to protect their funds. One solution is the implement for an activation time for setting a new guardian. If the transaction is not confirmed by an existing guardian, the activation time would give the user a chance to take action before the new guardian is set. In case the guardian confirms the transaction, the change could be made immediately. This solution would ensure that users have control over their accounts and can protect their funds even in the face of unexpected changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accounts can still be compromised by phishing attacks or other different ways. For unknown reasons, you may be confronted with the necessity to change the active guardian. The scope of account guarding is to protect users in case of a compromised account, but there are edge cases where it is uncertain whether a user or a scammer is changing the guardian, potentially leading to a scammer taking control of a user's funds. To address this issue, additional measures are necessary to allow users to protect their funds. One solution is the implement an activation time for setting a new guardian. If the transaction is not confirmed by an existing guardian, the activation time would give the user a chance to take action before the new guardian is set. In case the guardian confirms the transaction, the change could be made immediately. This solution would ensure that users have control over their accounts and can protect their funds even in the face of unexpected changes.
```

:::note
The exception is the ```setGuardian``` transaction which can either:

- be executed immediately if it is co-signed by the active guardian and **cleans up any pending guardian activation**;

- not be confirmed by the guardian but in this case the guardian can only be set with an activation time in future (e.g the same 20 epochs from the initial setting of a guardian).
:::

:::note
The ```GuardAccount``` transaction should clear any pending guardian.
:::

## Sending guarded (co-signed) transactions

Sending a guarded transaction will follow the same process of using the [Send Transaction](/sdk-and-tools/rest-api-/transactions#send-transaction) endpoint. In order for the transaction to be accepted by the protocol (when account is guarded and more than 20 epochs passed after sending the ```SetGuardian``` transaction), the optional fields ```guardian``` and ```guardianSignature``` have to be completed along with the proper version and option.

:::info
For a Guarded Transaction the **Version** must be set to **2** and **Options** must have the **second bit** set.
:::

A guarded transaction would look like:

> ```json

Reviewer: use `rust` instead of `json` for getting rid of the "linter" warning

{
    "nonce": 2,
    "value": "0",
    "receiver": "erd1qyu5wthldzr8wx5c9ucg8kjagg0jfs53s8nr3zpz3hypefsdd8ssycr6th",
    "sender": "erd1qyu5wthldzr8wx5c9ucg8kjagg0jfs53s8nr3zpz3hypefsdd8ssycr6th",
    "guardian": "erd1k2s324ww2g0yj38qn2ch2jwctdy8mnfxep94q9arncc6xecg3xaq6mjse8",
    "gasPrice": 1000000000,
    "gasLimit": 1177500,

>     "data": "U2V0R3VhcmRpYW5AYjEzYTAxNzQyM2MzNjZjYWZmOGNlY2ZiNzdhMTI2MTBhMTMwZjQ4ODgxMzQxMjJjNzkzN2ZlYWUwZDZkN2QxN0A3NTc1Njk2NA==", #base64 representation of Seting a Guardian

Reviewer 2: Perhaps explain what this data means as base64 decoded string and what every argument is supposed to mean

    "signature": "08e324107be096fa887d3a7679c1a612f138a7fb99936c60f767ac2ff98bd9cb1d161f738971da3934aac639de83870e03fdf0753f40b59b250334ffc881af03",
    "guardianSignature": "595a2fe26259c68789450f479515d40455b54507caf3a2e9bf62aa5e67ba45d38ea15c9ed06abb43a9a3644315ea2e3efefb83ce4a0f08ab89a99ac878049f01",
    "chainId": "local-testnet",
    "version": 2,
    "options": 2,
}
```

> :::info

Reviewer: use `rust` instead of `json`

Let's consider a scenario where two friends, Alice and Bob, have MultiversX wallets with addresses addrAlice and addrBob, respectively. Alice asks Bob to become her guardian, and after Bob agrees, Alice sets addrBob as her guardian. Once the guardian signing is activated through the GuardAccount function (which can only be done 20 days after setting the guardian), every transaction from Alice requires not only her signature but also Bob's signature.

For example, when Alice creates a guarded transaction to transfer 1EGLD to Charlie, the transaction includes two new fields: GuardianAddr and GuardianSignature, in addition to the regular transaction details. Alice signs the transaction and sends it to Bob for co-signing. The wallet back-end can handle the transaction submission and temporarily store incomplete guarded transactions, displaying them in the guardian wallet (Bob's wallet) as "transactions waiting for guardian approval." Bob then verifies if these transactions are genuinely from Alice or from someone impersonating her. In this scenario, Bob can directly ask Alice if the pending transaction is hers. If confirmed, he will sign it; otherwise, he may choose to reject it.

> While this process appears feasible in theory, there may be practical challenges. Alice might not want to wait for Bob's approval for a DEX transaction, or Bob could be overwhelmed with transactions from both Alice and potentially Eve, who gained access to Alice's secret key. Thus, it is crucial to automate the entire process to balance security and user experience without imposing high costs. One proposed automation solution is to use a Trusted Co-Signer (TCS) service that acts as a guardian, based on 2FA validation. This solution requires support from all wallet implementations that offer guardian-setting flows. In the case of the xPortal wallet, a separate proposal may be using the device as the guardian, optimizing communication and eliminating the need for the TCS service.

Reviewer 3: In the case of the xPortal wallet, the application on the device will act as the guardian, optimizing the communication and eliminating the need for the TCS service.

Author: done

If the sent ```SetGuardian``` transaction is an unguarded one, the user will be able to see ```pendingGuardian``` set ([along with the activation epoch](/sdk-and-tools/rest-api/addresses#get-address-guardian-data)). On the other hand, if the transaction is a guarded one, the new guardian will become directly active.

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

## For users

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

### Wallet Extension

The process of utilizing the wallet extension generally remains unchanged, with one additional step. Now, whenever you wish to initiate a guarded transaction, you will need to input the 2FA code for the TCS service. This step ensures that your transaction is properly signed by the guardian. Refer to [wallet-extension](/wallet/wallet-extension#guardian) page for more information.

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

### Web-Wallet

Follow on details about web-wallet [here](/wallet/web-wallet.md#guardian).

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

### xPortal

> There is no solution released for the **xPortal Wallet**. As soon as there is one, it will be documented and referenced here.

Reviewer 3: The solution for xPortal is still under implementation & testing and soon it will be documented and referenced here.. or something along these lines

Author: done

### Ledger

There is no official solution released for the **Ledger**. As soon as there is one, it will be documented and referenced here.

:::note

> In the meantime you can use the **MultiversX Guardians Test - BETA** version:

Reviewer: you can also state that this application is not yet approved and/or reviewed by Ledger and should only be used for testing, such as The great heist. It is not recommended for production use

**How to activate it?**
1. In Ledger Live
2. Go to My Ledger

> 3. Go to Settings

Reviewer: not sure if possible, but you can add this emoji: https://emojipedia.org/gear/

**How to activate it?**
1. In Ledger Live
2. Go to My Ledger

> 3. Go to ⚙️

Reviewer: optional: could be Settings (⚙️) instead of ⚙️ - maybe some browsers won't display the emoji
also for the other changes, leave the emoji as fallback near the description (Developer Mode - ✅ -> Enable ✅ Developer Mode)

Author: good idea
